>> Evan You: We've implemented
some pretty rudimentary routing.
If all your app needs to do is just
switching between top level pages,
we've essentially achieved the goal.
But in reality routing is much
more complicated than that.
Imagine you have URLs like,
>> Evan You: Foo/123.
It's very common to say user username or,
right?
You have all these dynamic segments here,
and if you've used a rounder before you
know that common convention is to denote
a dynamic segment starting with a colon.
So a URL pattern like this
means we want to match anything
that starts with user and
this part can be anything.
And also, we want to extract
this dynamic segment, and
pass it to our component as a prop or
as some sort of data.
The component needs to be able to
access and know like the current,
what the current dynamic segment is.
And so in reality,
this will match something like this,
where your component will
probably get an object like this.
Which is the dynamic data that's
associated with the current route.
And then,
imagine if you have something like this.
Then you probably expect something
like path, user/123,
Then this is considered
something like parans,
and query is foo bar.
So essentially, we're translating
a raw URL into a JavaScript
data structure that's easier for
our components to consume, right?
Instead of having to part it everywhere.
So this is very common need and
in the next section,
I will try to deal with some of it.
We're not going to like construct
a full like route object like this.
What we want to do is really just be
able to mesh dynamic paths like this.
And being able to extract the user name 1,
2, 3 part and pass it to our component.
So we want is essentially this, okay.
So how do we do this?
This involves some advanced parsing.
You need to somehow write a parser
that knows how to parse a URL and
figure out these dynamic segments.
And then figure out how to match this
incoming raw path to this patent,
and extract this username.
So seems like there could be
some way you can probably
handwrite a regular expression to do that.
But we want this whole
process to be automatic.
So we need something to convert these
patents into regular expressions.
That can help us do
the parsing at run time.
And luckily,
you don't have to write that yourself.
There is an existing library that
does a pretty good job at this and
that library is called path to regexp.
So if you look it up on Google,
path to regexp,
this is where it shows up.
So it's a pretty popular package.
It's used in quite a few
router implementations.
And the API though,
is not super straightforward.
Well, it's actually
pretty straightforward.
So, API looks like this.
Obviously, it exposes a function called,
pathToRegexp, and
you need to pass your pattern,
as the first argument into it.
The weird thing is you also
need to pass in a keys array.
So this array will be used to fill in
the dynamic segments, if there are any.
So see there,
there is a dynamic segment bar.
After we get the regexp,
we also have this keys array
filled up with an object.
And this object has a name, bar, prefix /
delimiter / optional, blah, blah, blah.
So most of these,
you don't really need to worry about.
The information that we need is that
there is one dynamic segment and
its name is bar, okay?
And this corresponds to
when you execute this
regular expression on
an incoming raw path.
If you've worked with JavaScript
regular expression before,
you know if it matches
it will return an array.
And this array will contain,
if you have capture groups inside your
regular expression, this array will,
in addition to the whole matching
string as a first element in the array.
It will be followed by all these capture
groups, the strings that's matched by this
capture groups, so those capture groups
will correspond to this keys array.
So if you execute this on imagine path,
you will get an array which first
element is the full path and
second element will be the content
that matches the bar segment.
So this might be a bit abstract to
talk about, so we'll go into the code
to just quickly show you
how the thing works.
So let's say, const keys equals this.
So if you use latest repository,
we already linked path to regexp onto
the page so you can access directly.
So pass to regexp,
foo bar keys, and
>> Evan You: Okay.
And let's make this, so
you can either do this.
>> Evan You: Foo 123.
>> Evan You: Okay, so
if we do this now and it matches,
result will be an array that
looks something like this.
It will be foo123123,
like this.
I probably should just hide it.
Okay, and the keys will look like
something like this, name bar.
Or ignore all the fields
that we don't care about.
So keys is this and the result is this, so
what you want to do is
to slice off the result.
Just remove the first element.
And now, we can use these to erase,
to construct a parents object
into this.
>> Evan You: So
in order to eventually obtain this object,
in order to feed it to our components,
this is what we need to do.
We need to take the raw matching
result and the keys, and
somehow iterate over them eventually
construct an object like this, okay.